

Principles of Knowledge
=======================

What is knowledge?

How do I organize it?

How do I describe it?



What is Knowledge?
==================

Knowledge is personal
	primarily a tool of thought
	secondarily a tool of communication

Knowledge consists of true concepts
                  and true propositions
	NOTES:
	A concept, like a proposition, is true if it
	has referents in reality; otherwise it is false.
	Truth is a combination of experience and logic
	with no contradictions.
	(Logic is the art of non-contradictory identification.)
	Possible worlds which contradict this world
	are not possible unless they involve men
	making choices.
	See Leonard Peikoff "The Analytic-Synthetic Dichotomy"

Words and sentences are the concrete symbols
   which denote concepts and propositions


How do I organize it?
=====================

How do I minimize the size?	(Rand)

	unit economy (regard)	=> unit-hierarchy

What's important to me?		(McCullough)

	purpose (view)		=> concept-hierarchy


How do I describe it?
=====================

Rand
====
	entity
	characteristic
		attribute
		part
		action
		event
		phenomenon
		relationship

	unit-hierarchy
	A concept is a mental integration of two or more units
	possessing the same distinguishing characteristic(s),
	with their particular measurements omitted.

	definition
		genus-differentia
		ostensive

	context is all knowledge currently available

McCullough
==========
	entity has attribute=value
	entity haspart part=count
	entity do action=event
	event changes eobject
		from attribute=intial to attribute=final
	event1 causes event2
	relationship has \
		r_format = "class:1; class:2; ...; class:n",
		r_meaning = " translation into primitive statements "

	concept isa genus; concept ise unit

	concept is alias
	concept is genus with differentia
	concept ise unit1, unit2, ...
	# NOTE: this is a disjunction of units, not a set of units
	# A concept is a percept or an integration of
	# two or more concepts.

	v := I do identify existent
	at space=s, time=t, view=v


axiomatic concepts
==================
at view = tabula_rasa

existent
	entity
		animal
			man is person
				I
		plant
		object
	characteristic
		attribute
		part
		action
			identify
		event
		phenomenon
		relationship
			"tabula_rasa := I do identify existent"
			"concept isa genus; concept ise unit"
			"concept is alias"
			"concept is genus with differentia"
			"entity has attribute=value"
			"entity haspart part=count" 
			"entity do action=event object"
			"event changes object \
				from attribute=initial \
				to attribute=final"
			"event1 causes event2"
			"class:1; class:2; ...; class:n"
